feat: kubecon 2024 (#30)
Ordina-Group/JWorks-blog: _posts/2024-04-01-kubecon-2024.md

I'm not sure if this was planned or not, but the talk directly afterward was a panel with VCs.
The VCs shared how to evaluate potential investments are provided suggestions on how a startup can make itself more interesting to a VC.
The two takeaways here were: the best way to some product-market-fit is by having paying customers using your solution and secondly, show the VC data that backs any claims you're making w.r.t. customer adoption and market interest in your product.

## [Kubernetes Maintainers Read Mean Comments - Tim Hockin (Google) & Davanum Srinivas (AWS)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sNRnB4rGZBI){:target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer"}

Being an open-source developer can be a very satisfying and rewarding job.
Engaging with a large community, particularly with famous open-source software, often leads to heartwarming feedback from dedicated users.
Open-source is more than just the open development of a product.
It has a widespread community, people contribute by either reporting issues on the issue tracker, by submitting a pull request to improve the software, participating in discussions on Slack or public forums, attending public meetings, ... .

> Sadly, it can also be a thankless job and not all people realize that open source software is something that anyone can contribute to, and does not really have any limitations as to how someone can contribute to.

Author: ```suggestion
Sadly, it can also be a thankless job and not all people realize that open source software is something that anyone can contribute to, and it doesn't really have any limitations as to how someone can contribute either.
```

> Tim Hockin (Google) and Davanum Srinivas (AWS) both maintain the Kubernetes project on Github.

Author: Maybe insert link?

> In this talk, they show some of the meanest, weirdest, most ridiculous comments written by Kubernetes users on public forums such as Reddit and the Github issue tracker.

Author: ```suggestion
During this talk, they showed some of the meanest, weirdest, most ridiculous comments written by Kubernetes users on public forums such as Reddit and their Github issue tracker.
```

> Most comments are about frustrations why it takes too long for a certain feature to be implemented or for a certain bug to be fixed.

Author: ```suggestion
Most comments are about frustrations why it takes too long for a certain feature to be implemented or for a particular bug to be fixed.
```

While some of them are hilarious, they really do not have a place in an open source environment.

People often wonder how it is possible that a bug is open for a few years and still hasn't been fixed, despite Kubernetes being a very popular product.
Tim and Davanum answer this question by simply saying that there are only a few engineers who are 100% assigned to the Kubernetes project.

> Engineers who are not assigned to the project try to contribute, but is often hard because of other commitments, whether those commitments are personal or business related.

Author: ```suggestion
Engineers who are not assigned to the project try to contribute, but it's often hard because of other commitments, whether those commitments are personal or business related.
```

As Kubernetes is globally adopted and used in a lot of international companies, there are a lot of issues coming in.
Sometimes, it's too much, and they simply don't have the time for it.
But as they say, the Kubernetes project is open source, anyone can create a pull request if people want to see a certain issue fixed.

They also want to highlight that, even though you have some frustrations with the product or things are not working as they are intended, you still have to remember that engineers are people aswell.
There is no place for rudeness, discourtesy and impoliteness.
You are allowed to express your frustrations, but do so in a kindly manner, without personally offending anyone.

> Not every comment is a bad comment, and they want to show that, as they end the presentation with a series of thankful and heartwarming posts and comments about Kubernetes and the time and effort that is being committed in the Kubernetes project every single day.

Author: ```suggestion
Not every comment is a bad comment, and they wanted to show that by ending their presentation with a series of thankful and heartwarming posts and comments about Kubernetes and the time and effort that is being committed in the Kubernetes project every single day.
```

## [Keep Hackers Out of Your Cluster with These 5 Simple tricks - Christophe Tafani-Dereeper & Frederic Baguelin](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UZz44j8bszU&t=1295s){:target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer"}

> Currently, there a limited useful threat intelligence available for cloud and containers, surrounded by a sea of noise. Therefore, Christophe & Frederic conducted some research and shared their finding in this interesting talk.

Author: ```suggestion
Currently, there is a limited set of useful threat intelligence tools available for cloud and containers, surrounded by a sea of noise. Therefore, Christophe & Frederic conducted some research and shared their finding in this interesting talk.
```

Reviewer: Amai wat een zin, ik ben gewoon volledige woorden vergeten 😳 thanks @pietervincken!

> The talk began by presenting a minimalist threat model for managed Kubernetes clusters operating in a cloud environment. You can compare a threat model to a map of your house, used to identify potential entry point for burglars. In this context, it helps anticipate and prevent cyber-attacks by understanding vulnerabilities.

Author: ```suggestion
The talk began by presenting a minimalist threat model for managed Kubernetes clusters operating in a cloud environment. You can compare a threat model to a map of your house, used to identify potential entrypoints for burglars. In this context, it helps anticipate and prevent cyber-attacks by understanding the thread vectors.
```

Engineers who are not assigned to the project try to contribute, but is often hard because of other commitments, whether those commitments are personal or business related.
As Kubernetes is globally adopted and used in a lot of international companies, there are a lot of issues coming in.
Sometimes, it's too much, and they simply don't have the time for it.
But as they say, the Kubernetes project is open source, anyone can create a pull request if people want to see a certain issue fixed.

They also want to highlight that, even though you have some frustrations with the product or things are not working as they are intended, you still have to remember that engineers are people aswell.
There is no place for rudeness, discourtesy and impoliteness.
You are allowed to express your frustrations, but do so in a kindly manner, without personally offending anyone.

Not every comment is a bad comment, and they want to show that, as they end the presentation with a series of thankful and heartwarming posts and comments about Kubernetes and the time and effort that is being committed in the Kubernetes project every single day.

> ## [Keep Hackers Out of Your Cluster with These 5 Simple tricks - Christophe Tafani-Dereeper & Frederic Baguelin](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UZz44j8bszU&t=1295s){:target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer"}

Author: ```suggestion
## [Keep Hackers Out of Your Cluster with These 5 Simple tricks - Christophe Tafani-Dereeper & Frederic Baguelin](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UZz44j8bszU){:target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer"}
```

Timestamp is not needed ;)

Currently, there a limited useful threat intelligence available for cloud and containers, surrounded by a sea of noise. Therefore, Christophe & Frederic conducted some research and shared their finding in this interesting talk.

The talk began by presenting a minimalist threat model for managed Kubernetes clusters operating in a cloud environment. You can compare a threat model to a map of your house, used to identify potential entry point for burglars. In this context, it helps anticipate and prevent cyber-attacks by understanding vulnerabilities.

> The model illustrated several possible threats, including exploiting application vulnerabilities, compromising the cluster, and injecting malicious code into images.

Author: ```suggestion
The model illustrated several possible threats, ranging from exploiting application vulnerabilities and compromising the cluster to injecting malicious code into images.
```

They explained their research process, which involved studying various sources and using honeypots. This led to an extensive breakdown of attacks into two main categories: Controller plane attacks, which target the K8s API server directly and Data plane attacks, which attempt to exploit workloads within K8s itself.

As promised in their title, they provided five simple security mechanisms to prevent these attacks, along with practical insights and tool recommendations.

1.	**Control Plane Security:** Ensure proper management of the control plane basic, which are mostly covered with managed K8s. Enforce authentication on the API server and minimize its network exposure.

> 2.	**Block Cloud Metadata Service Access:** Prevent workloads from accessing the cloud metadata service. While GKE Workload Identity provides enough protection, AWS IAM roles for Service Accounts & Azure Workload Identity do not. Blocking IMDS access using a network policy is required for these platforms.

Author: Cool

3.	**Understand Workload Privileges:** Be aware of the access levels and permissions associated with your workload.
4.	**Intentional Cluster Management:** Be deliberate about what runs in your cluster. Avoid creating unnecessary resources that may be forgotten or pose security risks.
5.	**Application Security:** Utilize modern frameworks and regularly update libraries, frameworks, and dependencies.

In conclusion, the talk not only provided valuable insights into the complexities of securing cloud-native environments but also offered practical guidance for addressing these challenges effectively.

## [Product Market Misfit: Adventures in User Empathy - Mitch Connors, Aviatrix](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jpIWERlrXT4){:target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer"}

> Far too often, software developers invest considerable amount of time and effort into building features or products, only to discover they are either disliked or unused by their target audience - a scenario we've encountered firsthand in our day-to-day work.

Author: ```suggestion
Far too often, software developers invest a considerable amount of time and effort into building features or products, only to discover they are either disliked or unused by their target audience - a scenario we've encountered firsthand in our day-to-day work.
```

> In his talk, Mitch Connors delves into this issue and provides valuable insights on how to tackle it.

Author: Link to Mitch his twitter / linkedin?

Developers often make the mistake of building what they believe their users need, rather than what they actually require.
This misalignment originates from differing perspectives of developers and users.
Connors effectively illustrates this through the use of some real-world examples.

His key advice for tackling this problem is to foster empathy for your users:

> 1. Get into their shoes; experience what they experience. By doing so, a shared perspective can be developed.

Author: ```suggestion
1. Stand in their shoes; experience what they experience. By doing so, a shared perspective can be developed.
```

## AWS
At this year's KubeCon, AWS didn't have as big a setup as they did [last year](https://blog.ordina-jworks.io/cloud/2023/05/17/kubecon-2023.html#aws){:target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer"}, with a smaller booth and fewer activities.
But they still had some neat stuff to check out, like cool gadgets and socks up for grabs.
One standout was an arcade machine with a twist - the game was inspired by Space Invaders, but instead of monsters, you were shooting at Kubernetes pods in a cluster.
Shooting down Deployments & Pod Autoscalers stopped the pods from respawning.

AWS staff were around to chat with, offering demos of their latest features and hot topics.

On the final day, they hosted a raffle where lucky attendees could snag one of two LEGO sets just by swinging by their booth and signing up for the raffle.
# Conclusion
// TODO @all

The conference in **"la Ville Lumière"** ("the City of Light") was an incredible experience, combining education with enjoyment.
The wide variety of conference booths showcasing interesting companies (and, of course, gadgets/activities) added to the fun.

> This is a great way for these companies to promote their product, as we noticed a lot of engagement towards these companies from Kubecon attendees.

Author: ```suggestion
This is a great way for these companies to share their latest and greatest tech. 
We noticed a lot of engagement towards these companies from Kubecon attendees.
```

While the venue at Paris Expo Porte de Versailles was impressive, there was room for improvement in the quality of the food, although the desserts were delicious.
Similar to previous year, some talks were so popular that they exceeded the capacity of their assigned rooms.

> Some talks had to be moved to even bigger rooms so the capacity could be handled.

Author: ```suggestion
Some talks had to be moved to even bigger rooms so the capacity could be handled. 
This was a very big improvement over previous KubeCons where it happened more than once that you couldn't attend a very popular talk. 
```

> Overall, the event was amazing and there were a lot of interesting talks, leaving us eagerly anticipating next year's edition in London.

Author: ```suggestion
Overall, the event was amazing and there were a lot of interesting talks, leaving us eagerly anticipating next year's edition in London.
We hope to see you there!
```

We noticed a lot of engagement towards these companies from Kubecon attendees.
The wide variety of conference booths showcasing interesting companies (and, of course, gadgets/activities) added to the fun.

AI was all the rage this year at KubeCon.
Because this is still a very evolving space and not a lot of companies have effectively embedded into their portfolio, most AI-related talks were "this might be possible someday"-talks or "getting very deep into the weeds"-talks. 
It would have been nice to have some more 101-level talks about how to run AI workloads in Kubernetes and to see more demos of AI-K8s-related products. 

Similar to the previous year, some talks were so popular that they exceeded the capacity of their assigned rooms.
Some talks had to be moved to even bigger rooms so the capacity could be handled. 
This was a very big improvement over previous KubeCons where it happened more than once that you couldn't attend a very popular talk. 

Overall, the event was amazing and there were a lot of interesting talks, leaving us eagerly anticipating next year's edition in London.
We hope to see you there!

> We hope to see you there!

Author: ```suggestion
```

In his talk, Mitch Connors delves into this issue and provides valuable insights on how to tackle it.

Developers often make the mistake of building what they believe their users need, rather than what they actually require.
This misalignment originates from differing perspectives of developers and users.
Connors effectively illustrates this through the use of some real-world examples.

His key advice for tackling this problem is to foster empathy for your users:

1. Get into their shoes; experience what they experience. By doing so, a shared perspective can be developed.
2. Maintain an open mindset and never stop listening. Embrace criticism, especially if you truly love what you've built.

While Connors' talk certainly differed from all others we attended, it was very interesting and engaging.
We strongly believe every software developer, as well as anyone involved in creating products for groups of users, could greatly benefit from the insights he provides.

> ## [Keptn: a deep dive](https://youtu.be/eoK3BQQlsIE?si=0plqlHEv1hX4YCu7){:target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer"}

Author: @DuncanCasteleyn Maybe try to focus more on what Keptn fixes instead of "how it does it".

The talk starts with explaining why Keptn was created and why other tools like ArgoCD (because App health degraded).

Keptn tries to solve the problem of deployments failing and being hard to debug or trace.
Think about image tag missing, a configmap can't be mounted as volume, scheduling errors and network policy changes.

Keptn uses observability to track application health and not just pod health,
improves the signal-to-noise ratio and allows you to promote your applications easily into other environments using your favourite CI/CD tool.

Why are probes not enough you ask?
Kubernetes only checks if an application is responding and giving a 200 http ok.

Keptn goes further if an application that before responded to request in say 200 ms,
but your new version of the application response in 600 ms, would you consider it a healthy application?
No, and neither does Keptn if you configure it right.

> It can use OpenTelemetry traces and prometheus metrics (but not limited to)

Author: ```suggestion
It can use OpenTelemetry traces and Prometheus metrics
```

in combination with standard metadata labels to identify links and versions.
You must specify the following labels: app.kubernetes.io/name; app.kubernetes.io/version and app.kubernetes.io/part-of.

> Using that meta-data Keptn can observe your deployments for your business application and identify bad deployments.

Author: ```suggestion
Using this metadata Keptn can observe your deployments for your application and identify bad deployments.
```

You can check acceptable response times by specifying SLI,

> SLO and SLA's this has the benefit of allowing you to implement a day 2 operation.

Author: ```suggestion
SLO and SLA's.
This makes it easier to track your applications real health and improves your day two operations. 
```

With the help of Keptn you can monitor if an application was deployed, 
check if everything is healthy
and then trigger promotion using a hook with all the information of the deployment to you CI/CD tool

Keptn adds a subset of the DORA observability metrics and traces to your kubernetes events,
making it possible to ingest then in any tool that supports OpenTelemetry

> Argo loves Keptn and are exploring ways to better integrate Keptn into Argo

Author: ```suggestion
Argo loves Keptn and is exploring ways to better integrate Keptn into ArgoCD. 
```

> and are asking the community how to better integrate it.

Author: ```suggestion
They are asking the community how to better integrate it.
```

> Conclusion: Keptn is a tool that uses OpenTelemetry adds observability to your deployments,

Author: ```suggestion
Conclusion: Keptn is a tool that uses OpenTelemetry to add observability to your deployments,
```

> validate SLIs/SLOs and promote them into other environments.

Author: ```suggestion
track your SLAs/SLIs/SLOs and assist you in promoting applications across environments.
```

> Check out their [documentation](https://keptn.sh/stable/docs/) for use cases and how to set it up.

Author: ```suggestion
Check out their [documentation](https://keptn.sh/stable/docs/){:target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer"} for use cases and how to set it up.
```

---
layout: post
authors: [pieter_vincken, yolan_vloeberghs, ferre_vangenechten, robbe_de_proft, duncan_casteleyn]
title: 'KubeCon + CloudNativeCon EU 2024'
image: /img/2024-04-01-kubecon-2024/banner.png
tags: [cloud, conference, cloud-native, kubernetes]
category: Cloud
comments: true
---

> KubeCon \| CloudNativeCon EU edition, en francaise ç'année.

{:refdef: style="text-align: center;"}
<img src="{{ '/img/2024-04-01-kubecon-2024/group_photo.jpg' | prepend: site.baseurl }}" alt="JWorks group picture" class="image" style="margin:0px auto; max-width:100%">
_JWorks and friends at KubeCon 2024_
{: refdef}

# Introduction

This year the cloud-native conference is hosted in the capital of love: Paris, France.
The convention center, Expo Port de Versailles, is a huge complex.
Funnily enough, it's so big that there are other (non-kubecon | cloudnativecon) events going on at the same time as Kubecon in the conference center.

> Pavilion 7 where the conference is hosted, is a very nice building which looks very recent.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Pavilion 7, where the conference is hosted, is a very nice building which looks very recent.
```

The biggest difference with the previous conferences we attended (Valencia and Amsterdam) is that everything is very close to each other.
The building has 3 floors: the main entrance, the showcase floor and the talk-rooms-floor.

> All talks are held in rooms that are oriented in a large square, with the keynote room being in the middle.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All talks are held in rooms that are oriented in a large square, with the Paris Keynote room being in the middle.
```

This makes it very easy to quickly switch between rooms, especially compared to the 5-10 minute walks we were used to in Valencia and Amsterdam.

{:refdef: style="text-align: center;"}
<img src="{{ '/img/2024-04-01-kubecon-2024/venue-map.png' | prepend: site.baseurl }}" alt="Venue Map" class="image" style="margin:0px auto; max-width:100%">
The venue map
{: refdef}

> The keynote room could accommodate a very large crowd.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Paris Keynote room could accommodate a very large crowd.
```
